---
title: Narrarative Argument Essay
author: Samuel Phillips
---

A few years ago, I took a Spanish class in high school. I was a good student. I
did my homework, I didn't skip class, and I have the final grade to prove it.
But even so, today I couldn't for the life of me string together a single
coherent sentance in Spanish. Not only that, but I have never had a single
experience since that class where knowing Spanish might have even been slightly
useful. Now, I don't think the class was ever worth taking.

I didn't have any need to learn Spanish, nor did I really want to take the
class, but it was a requirement, so I made sure I showed up. The first day I
walked in, I saw a classroom full of standard-issue bored high school students.
You could tell looking into some of these students eyes that they had no desire
to be there. Neither did I.

I would have rather have taken any number of other classes. In particular, I
was taking only one AP class that year, and could probably have taken another.
AP classes are great because you get college credit without paying college
prices, and often, you don't get the college workload either. But, like I said,
a langauge was required.

I have to admit, the next two weeks were genuinely interesting. Those two weeks
were when I learned that "is" is a verb, among other oddities. In those two
weeks, I saw how things I had previously though of as set in stone were
actually only one possibility. I'm sure those were not the only gems available
though language. Sadly, as I was to find out, the next set would be on a
pedestal whose height I would never grow to reach.

The next 38 weeks were completed devoid of useful knowledge. We memorized
dozens of worlds, only so they could be prompty forgotten. I knew the material
was useless, but I did the work anyway, as it was by far my easiest class.
Other students were not as motivated. I learned later that some people got C's
and D's, which is pretty impressive.

Maybe if I had gone on to further years of Spanish, I wouldv'e had more of
those first two weeks. But my requirement was one language class, and there was
no way in hell I was going to pick Spanish II over AP Computer Science or
Multivariable Calculus, classes that not only were interesting but gave me
valuble college credits.

Some languages, like Esperanto, were constructed with ease of learning in mind.
Where many lanugages have accumulated hundreds of grammer rules with thousands
of exceptions, Esperanto's grammer has sixteen rules with zero exceptions. It's
entierly possible to hold fluent conversation in Esperanto after only a year of
learning, in fact, some people suggest only 6 weeks! The only downside is that
knowing Esperanto will never be useful, but it's not clear that knowing Spanish
will be useful either.

If I ever go to a foreign country, the chance it'll be a Spanish speaking
nation are fairly remote. That I'll ever need to converse with a Spanish
speaker here in the States is also unlikely. It's not like I'd need to know the
language anywayâ€”Spanish to English is a well-trod path for machine translators.
The only language I really wish I knew is Japanese. Even then, the time and
effort required to learn it outweighs my desire to watch anime without
subtitles.

TODO: Write a conclusion.
